Welcome back.
And earlier we saw well we're using the mouse event listener that we could get.
Actually the position within the listener of where the mouse is located.
So let's set up a div and this div will act as a container.
So let's give it a class and we're going to give it as a class of Holder.
And then inside of here I'm going to create another div and I'm going to give this one an ID of output
so I can identify both divs and I also want to add some styling to those divs.
So let's go up here and let's apply some styling.
So let's grab that Holder element or all the holder elements and let's do a display and inline block
is the one that we want to use.
So inline block and give it a with.
So I want to make it nice and wide and also I want to make it nice and high.
So do 300 pics by 300 pics and let's add in a border so we know that where it's positioned.
So one pick a solid block and let's add some padding around it saying 10 pics of padding around it.
So there we go.
So now we've got that Holder and there actually is going to be one other class that I want to add in
here.
And this is going to be the active one.
So whenever it's active I want to change the background color.
So lets make it red.
So it really stands out and pops out.
So within this lesson what I want it to do is use javascript and whenever the user is on top of this
element I want to pick up where the positioning of the mouse is and I want to output that information
into output here.
So whenever they hover over holder we're going to fire off the vent and we're going to pick up and output
where the element is located.
So now what I want you to do is to I don't event listener to Holder.
So I want to be able to detect whenever there is a mouse over the holder element within here aged him
out.
So go ahead.
Pause the video and create that class there holder and then at an event listener within your javascript
to be able to tell when the mouse is on top of that element.
So pause the video try to show you the solution coming up.
So first thing that we need to do is we need to grab the element so let's do document and get.
Or we can actually let's do query selector so know that there's a number of different ways to to select
it.
And it actually doesn't matter because all we're trying to do is just make a selection.
So however you're selecting that element in any way that you're selecting it is fine.
So this time we're using Querrey selectors so that we have a little bit of variety in the way that we're
doing our selection and we're not always using get element by id and so on we can also use by class
and just simply select the first one there because we know we only have one but query selector will
do the trick.
So the next thing that we need to do is add the listener so that the listener and the listener that
we're listening for is mouse over.
So whenever the mouse is over we want to fire off a function.
And within this function we want it to
trigger something to happen.
So for now let's just log it out in the console that we're actually on top of the cell.
So let's get it ready.
So now let's go in and refresh.
And we see that now whenever we're on top then it's firing off and it's triggering that event.
So we're ready to do the next part and the next part of it is to go back a few lessons where we looked
at class list and where we found that we can add and remove different elements different classes into
an element.
So what I want to do is I actually want to add.
So whenever we're over I want to add the active class to the element.
So pause the video and update that Sunstone of console log.
I want you to add to the element that the mouse is on top of it.
So let's do that.
So let's do we're going to use this and it's class list.
So class list and we are within the class list.
We're using the method of ADD.
So we're simply adding in a class whenever the mouse is on top.
So let's go out and try this out.
So we see that it's working.
So now there is a second challenge that we need to do because we've added active but whenever we're
going off it's actually being removed.
So we need to take care of that.
So what I want you to do again pause the video and do the mouse out and for the mouse out.
What I want you to do is remove that active class.
So go ahead.
Plus a video and update the code to remove the active class.
Whenever we're out of that element so show you the solution.
So the solution is simply that instead of hard work in to remove.
And instead of mouse over we're going to do most.
So now let's refresh the page and try to add a mouse over red it's active mouse out.
We're removing that element.
So that's how we can really get really effective with what we can do within the dorm because we can
add and remove classes.
So we have a number of all of these different pieces of functionality working together in order to accomplish
the results that we want happening within our within our code.
So the next thing that I wanted to do is I actually want it to pick up where the mouse is located and
I want it to output that within that output element.
So this one is another event listener and this one is.
So we're doing as a listener.
And this one is called Most move.
So basically whenever the mouse is moving and we're on top of the particular element that we want it
to fire off and we want to launch one of the functions.
So instead of having an anonymous function I'm going to just call this going to actually get the coordinates
so we just call it cord and so that's the function.
And this one is going to fire off and it's going to go to another function.
So we're not going to do it within the same format which we could.
But just to be different and to show a little bit of variety let's create a brand new function here
and Cordone is the name of the function.
And now this one needs to pick up where we're located.
So first of all let's log it will do a console log and whenever we're over it let's log out.
That oven that's firing this off.
So just to make sure that we're still getting that event object and we are still getting that event
object and we can see within the event object we've got client X and if we scroll down a little bit
we've got client y.
So that's the mouse location.
And we see once we go right up to the corner it's going to be pretty much zero and zero.
And as we move down through that element we get to two larger numbers.
So basically those are the coordinates that I want to log in to the output.
So what I want you to do now is once again pause that video and update this element output with these
coordinates as the users move in the mouse.
So basically it will show up the client X. So you can just say X and Y output that over here and output
them as the user moves the mouse.
So pause the video and remember that this is an object.
So we already have this and we already have all of this information sitting within the event object.
So all you have to do is output it within that output element.
So pause the video and try that out and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So the solution for it is that first of all let's hook up to our output.
We can actually get rid of the console log and let's do document a document get element by id and we're
going to grab output and with it output we're going to do it for each A now.
So we're going to set that age to a male and let's set up a brand new variable will register a brand
new variable called H.E. and now and then within here let's create our output stream.
So we know that we want to get the value of x and we want to do whatever to get the value of x and then
also we want to do the value of y.
So we can put a pipe there in the middle and then over here is going to be the value of y.
So now we need to be able to find those values and the good thing about it is we already have access
to them within the event.
And we can use client
so it's client X that we're looking for.
So when we do that then we're going to get the value of client X..
And at this time we need client y over here.
So let's go back to refresh the code and try to.
So now whenever we're over we can actually see the coordinates of where the mouse is located and as
we drag out.
And then once we leave we get it go it doesn't go red and we're not picking up the coordinates anymore.
And then when we come back in we're getting those coordinates again.
So that's how you add multiple event listeners to the same element and you can do a number of different
things with those.